Let's update our application in this lesson and make it a little bit more dynamic.
So we need an input just a regular text input and I've already used search within the ID search term
and value for the value right now.
Maybe it can be something like javascript.
That's a very relevant term to be searching within a javascript course.
So let's refresh and we've got Javascript.
And what we want to do is be able to click the Search button and search Wikipedia.
So the reason Wikipedia is pretty cool is because it's got a lot of information and it's got a really
flexible API.
So there's some information on it of course about the API.
So they've got the basic end point.
So action Querrey titles titles mean page there's some information here that you don't necessarily need
a format Jaison format version 2.
There's a bunch of information here and basically this can return back some content within a Jaison
format.
And of course you could click that and you can see that this is information that we're returning back.
So we're going to use a more stripped down version of the you or I.
So we've got our API ph P format Jason action open search and our search term.
So javascript there and this is also really important so that Orjan asked equals Asterix is super important.
And let me show you why.
So let's open up our application that we were building out go over here.
We're going to replace this placeholder random user with that and this time let me remove it.
Origin.
So refresh search and we get this curus error.
So you're going to encounter this this happens very often that you get this no control allow origin.
This is a coures error and this error is triggered if you're trying to get connect to an API across
different domains and it's very common Your host is a lot of times if you're unfamiliar with API or
if it's on an API that you've set up that you're trying to connect to these you or else.
And Wikipedia has a really nice solution for it because it's comparison.
Some of that header information using origin strikes.
That's why I said it's really super important to make sure that you include that because now when I
refresh it we actually get some information back.
So we've got javascript javascript engine.
So you've got three different values here that are being returned back.
And so it's got a number of different search terms here and the first story.
It's got our search value there in that array and it's not actually getting this file yet from the input
and we are going to hook that up next it's giving us some information about the API.
So this is all being returned back within Enry format but it's also within a string format so we can
pull back this information and simply output it on our Web page and we can go through this survey if
we want or we can just use the first orbed the first item in the array that's being returned back.
So let's try this out.
And this actually could vary depending on what our search term is.
So you've got to be really careful about making it too static.
We want the more dynamic we can make our application the better off we're going to.
Let's start by grabbing our search term and the search term here is can be added in within the U r l.
So let's add that.
So we need to grab that information first.
So let's do a search term we use query selector query selector is sometimes one of my favorite ones
to use.
There's always different ways.
Could a given in an ID and grabbed it by Dokument get element by ID.
So that's one of the most standard ways to do this.
This time we're going to grab the input and we're grabbing input with the name.
And this way we can make our selection and this one has a name of search term.
And one of the things to also to keep in mind when you are using IDs by default the browser will take
these in as objects so you don't actually have to do get element by id search.
You could just do search so some browsers will do that and that's why I don't always prefer using IDs
and especially if setting variables for the objects.
Because this has already been done by default and some of the browsers.
So just keep that in mind.
That's why doing it this way with the query selectors is a little bit better but it's up to you.
So now whenever we click it and actually we don't have anything that's doing anything with that value
that we took.
So let's update that to be a search term.
So just copy that out get rid of javascript and of course we already have a default value of a script
so nothing should change.
But it's just how we're getting that data.
So when I click Search we're searching for javascript and it looks like something went wrong there.
So let's quickly output our search term in the console.
So what do you think happened here.
What do you think went wrong and we see that we're not grabbing the value.
So whenever you're using inputs you've got to make sure that you grab the value.
So we're just doing grabbing that whole element as an object.
But we want to make sure we're grabbing the value.
So next we click it we've got our javascript.
We're sending it over to the server and we're outputting the data that we're looking for.
So that's great.
And now next we're move we're ready to move on to the next step and the next step is going to be taking
some of this information and putting it on her web page and then we're going to hook up the next API
which is going to be YouTube.
So it's going to be really interesting.
So that's all coming up.
So now try this out for yourself.
Open up your editor create an input field and then grab that value from the input field and pass it
into your API effectively making it dynamic.
So if we do test you can see that we get different results being returned back.
So try it out make sure it's working.
Next lesson we're going to continue to build out this application.